So now that we can close and open our modal, let's dispatch our own events.
Now how do we do that?
Well for that, let me first of all accept on the cancel event, the event object. We get this automatically,
we get this automatically because we used this click event listener here and Javascript just works in
a way that the method which gets triggered for this event automatically receives an object with some
metadata about the event that was created by Javascript,
so about that built-in event.
Now we don't need that event to dispatch our own ones,
we will not copy it or anything like that but on this event with event target, I get access to the target
that is responsible for this event,
so in my case the button and this button just like every other HTML element is capable of dispatching
a new event with dispatch event method. The dispatch event method takes a new event,
so a totally new event, not this event we receive here, a new event as an argument.
So here, I'll name this cancel event, the name is totally up to you
and I create it with the new keyword which we use in Javascript to create new objects based on constructor,
functions or classes
and I'll use the built-in event object.
So this is built into Javascript, just as the HTML element is.
So now I can create a new event here and we give this event our own name by passing it in the constructor
here between quotation marks,
so as a string and here I'll name this cancel and this is exactly the name to which we will be able
to listen to from outside later.
So here I am listening to the cancel event in my index.html file and this should work later
because I'm dispatching an event named cancel here.
So now I pass this cancel event to my dispatch event function
and with that, let's see if that works.
Let's go back and reload here,
click that and click cancel and we don't see cancelled here in the console, even though we should be
logging that here when we listen to the cancel event.
So somehow our own event doesn't really seem to be dispatched on our component and indeed it isn't. It
is dispatched on the button because
and that is the only reason why I accepted the event argument here, we're dispatching it on the
event target of the cancelled event or of the cancel event handler I should say and that event handler
is used on the click event of the cancel button.
So the event target of that event is the cancel button,
so we're using that HTML element to dispatch the event here and therefore, the only place where we can
listen to that, well is that button.
So if I would
add an event listener here and I would listen for the cancel event here and there I just use an anonymous
arrow function to quickly output cancel inside the component,
then we should see that log
once we click the cancel button because now we're listening to the same element where we dispatched
this and indeed, here we see cancel inside the component.
So the good thing is dispatching our custom event works,
the bad thing is it is only available on our button,
it doesn't leave our component and that is not ideal.
Let's work on that and I'll comment this out here,
let's work on this in the next lecture.